What is the difference between documentation, citation, and reference?

There is considerable overlap in how people use terms like document, cite, reference, quote, and the like. For the sake of consistency here, we will define these terms as follows:

documentation is the general practice of acknowledging sources by clearly indicating what you have borrowed and giving the proper bibliographic information for each source
a citation occurs when you use a specific source in your work and then follow up with the proper bibliographic information; plagiarism issues arise when you use a specific source, but fail to indicate what you have borrowed, and/or fail to provideproper bibliographic information
a reference is the bibliographic information that guides readers to your source.


nuclear weapons,coal smog, acid rain

engineers have different responsibility than others, for example, teachers

Why is it of particular concern in China?
The implementation of tech on a never before seen scale coupled with a massive population
so negative consequences
so public safty is more concerned
largest population so a larger public

contract: Establish a relation between two parities;two sided-establish responsibilities/duties and rights

2015/5/19
professional based on education, knowledge, value of society
The nature of safety
safety is a matter of degrees thresholds
dangerous:failure

for example hurricane katrina 
normative -right/weong a should question

listing ethical issues does not consist in listing facts - although identifying the facts of a situation is important in determining the ethical issues

factual -true/false 


2015.5.21
The nature purpose of engineering
Not only about technical knowhow:
make and design things and processes to make life better or at at least not make it worse:
normaltive ethical dimension of engineering

very few acts only make the world a better place e.g mining
The goal shoudld thus be a balance between good and bad

The use of reason in engineering
is logical replicable and universal the same for all e.g. math. science
(versus flipping a coin, emotions/intuitions. artistic/asetheics)
engineering requires rationality - that one gives reason

diferent individuals societies value things differently
but having different value systems does not mean engineering should be different...

The primary responsibility is public safety, is independent of other values a foundational value/lowest common denominator

Approach to ethical concerns
1.universalism
2.societal/relativism
the basis for deciding between right and wrong would be relative to the society in which on finds oneself.
professional (engineering) ethics would be a mixture of approaches - reason + role responsibilities
3.professional and role responsibilities

2015/6/2
The apprenticeship model
occupations begin with families
guilds rely on secrey -advantages over others on this basis

the problem of this model is: the knowlege cannot be spread
one student and one teacher: only what the "master" has taught him or her - different type/body of knowledge

apprenticesship: one can learn how to imitate the master ->innovation
professional:one can learn from the world ->from imitation to innovation

university publish, everyone can learn

master->school formal education

do->theory->do 
theory and practice
philosophers only intrepret the world, is theory, so not professional
engineer professional

similarly, philosopher VS teacher 

knoeledge is not disseminated
....
....
....
....
Regulating the profession
monopoly one controls

in professions of membership, doing what the professon prescribes to control/assure....


2015/06/09
early codes emphasized the protection of the group : a"holdover" from the guild period
initially engineering took medicine as its model the most prestigious

Wrong models:doctoes deal with individual patiens paternalistically wherea engineers deal primarily with their bosses and clients.
1947 ECPD ->ABET
first engineers should be responsible to the public, safety as paramount
all codes since then have taken a similar form-expections IEEE, chinese codes
A PE(professional engineer) needs to be credited/have a license

All engineering projects need t obe certified
"an industrial exemption" one doesn't have to be a PE to work as an engineer, but someone needs to certify the projects

regardless of degree, employer decides whether engineer

public safety
memorize verbatim!!!
Concerns not only one's own behaviour - you have a duty to report unsafe behaviour to the "proper authority" -within/outside the organization

Safety/competence
versus the case of the Pinto......

Professional development
engineering changes very quickly - it's easy to fall behind in one's ability and become incompetent

Lifelong learning is necessary.
Learning isn't over once you complete school

Faithful agency
engineers must look out for the interests.....

Confidentiality = keeping sectests	intellectual property

2015/6/16
Professional autonomy
expertise

engineers are mainly employed in hierarchical organizations

Hierarchical authority is based on the position one occupies in an organization- a hierarchical chain of command